=head1 NAME

bse-unicode.pod - using unicode with BSE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Using utf-8 with BSE is currently experimental.  This latest support
is independent and incompatible with previous implementation changes.

You will need to perform three steps:

=over

=item 1.

change the database character set to utf-8

=item 2.

change the BSE character set to utf-8

=item 3.

enable the utf8 flag.

=back

=head2 Changing the database character set

For a new system you can simply do:

  cd util
  perl upgrade_mysql.pl -c utf8

For an old system it will be more complex.

If the character set the database uses for your tables matches the
character set of the data you already have stored, then the above will
work.

To check the character set:

  mysql -uuser -p databasename
  mysql> show full columns from order_item;

If the C<Collation> column is a collation for your character set the
the above will work.

Note that Mysql's C<latin1> is equivalent to C<windows-1252>.

If your database character set isn't equivalent you can fix the table
character sets by converting to binary and then to the correct
character set:

  perl upgrade_mysql.pl -c binary
  perl upgrade_mysql.pl -c latin1

Only then perform the conversion to C<utf8>.

=head2 Changing the BSE character set to UTF-8

As you did historically, set C<charset> in C<html>:

  [html]
  charset=utf-8

=head2 Enable the C<utf8> flag

Set C<utf8=1> in C<[basic]>:

  [basic]
  utf8=1

Note that this flag doesn't require that the BSE character set be set
to utf-8, but it is recommended.

The flag currently causes the following changes in behaviour:

=over

=item *

template files are converted from the BSE character set to unicode for
internal processing.

=item *

if the BSE character set is utf-8 then the database handle is
configured to work in unicode.

=item *

template processed output is converted from unicode to the BSE
character set on output.

=item *

JSON output is explicitly converted to UTF-8.

=back

BSE character set refers to the value configured in [html].charset

=cut
