=head1 NAME

BSE - an engine for simple magazine style WWW sites.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BSE is an engine for creating simple magazine type web sites.

Maybe I'll add some other bits here.

=head1 CHANGES

=head2 0.12_16

=over

=item *

the ifUserCan tag wasn't converting article names into numbers
correctly

=item *

a few pages didn't supply the article parameter to ifUserCan correctly
(or at all in some cases)

=back

=head2 0.12_15

=over

=item *

global permissions simply didn't work, due to a dumb bug

=item *

the user/group admin pages now display buttons and checkboxes more
intelligently, depending on the user's rights

=item *

the user/group save processing was trying to call an undefined method
if the user didn't have access to a function.  As was the add form in
add.pl if there wasn't an article the user could add to at the given
level

=item *

the hide/unhide links on the edit_product page pointed at the wrong
place.

=item *

image, file, stepchild and stepparent changes now regenerate the
article (depending on the auto generate flag in Constants.pm).  You
will probably want to do a site regen when you're done still, since it
only regenerates the article you're working with, not it's
stepchildren and step parents.

=item *

link the edituser and editgroup help to the adduser and addgroup help
files respectively and add entries for the groups and members field
respectively.

=item *

added a help file for the access panel help icon to link to.

=back

=head2 0.12_14

=over

=item *

product_detail.tmpl hadn't been converted to use the global money tag

=item *

different versions of CGI::Cookie use different default paths, we now
force a path of "/".

=item *

really store the date and _time_ in the order date.

=item *

if the system needs you to logon for checkout, it now supplies the
correct parameter to the logon code to return you to the checkout
after you logon.

=item *

when setting configuration values from test.cfg with the:

I<section>.I<key> = I<value>

syntax, I<section> can now have spaces in it.

=item *

added some basic permission descriptions, and documentation on the
permissions system

=back

=head2 0.12_13

=over

=item *

the title field could be changed on products that had been ordered (an
edit field was presented for the summary field, but wasn't saved)

=item *

edit_0.tmpl had two manage access forms on it

=item *

use the new system logon rather than just checking for a browser
authentication userid, when marking an order filled.

=item *

attempt to account for differences between what browsers send us for
text areas (currently only for the body)

=item *

prevent <br> between each element of a <ol> or <ul> list, and try to
prevent one after the end.  Double spaced entries in a list are now
followed by <br>s to make it easier to do spaced out lists.

=item *

new hide and unhide targets for add.pl to make the links in the
product list work again

=item *

the save target for existing articles in add.pl now checks the user is
allowed to do it.

=item *

the product link on the final checkout page was broken (adrian)

=item *

the reordering links were displayed on the shop index page with the
multicat template

=item *

the query used to retrieve user, group and everyone permissions from
the database was broken.  Broke it into three separate queries.  I
wish mysql supported unions

=item *

you can now logout if you logged in using the form based logon

=item *

creating a user, saving an existing user or deleting a user will now
create an apache suitable user file, if the htusers field in [basic]
is set.

=back

=head2 0.12_12

=over

=item *

mysql_build.pl wasn't cleaning up old tables, and since we use it for
two different projects, the tables from another project were being
included.

=item *

annoying and numerous warning from Squirrel::Template eliminated

=item *

change admin.pl to check the admin user is logged on

=item *

change generate.pl to check the admin user is logged on and has the
access needed to regen

=item *

change move.pl to check the admin user is logged on and has the rights
to perform the move requested

=item *

change reorder.pl to check the admin user is logged on and has the
rights to perform the reorder requested

=item *

change shopadmin.pl to check the admin user is logged on and that they
have the rights needed to perform the requested operation

=item *

change subs.pl to check the admin user is logged on and that they have
the rights needed to perform the requested operation

=item *

BSE::Permissions::user_has_perms() now accepts an article id,
simplifying some code

=item *

added orderfiles iterator to the userpage.

=item *

updates to BSE::Edit::Article to only allow movements when the user
has appropriate rights

=item *

field change permissions



=back

=head2 0.12_11

=over

=item *

thumbnails are now saved when editing an existing article

=item *

the code to save keys to config sections which didn't already exist
was broken

=item *

the total_extras custom hook now takes two extra parameters, the
config object and a "stage" of processing, either "cart", "checkout",
"confirm" or "final".

=item *

new customization hook order_mail_actions($order, $items, $products,
$state, $cfg) for adding extra tags to the confirmation and order
emails.

=back

=head2 0.12_10

=over

=item *

pass the configuration object to each BSE::Custom method

=item *

new shop target, "checkupdate" intended for updating information on
the checkout page for customizations

=item *

you can now set extra configuration items in test.cfg using 

I<section>.I<key> = I<value>

(Adrian asked for this a while back.)

=item *

dynamic menu display

=item *

logon page (only seen if access control is enabled)

=item *

start of access control

=back

=head2 0.12_09

=over

=item *

ability to control permissions each admin user and group has access to

=item *

new help for image manager, other updated help files, many template
changes, thanks to Adrian.

=item *

deleting admin users and groups

=item *

selectable payment types

=item *

when sending a subscription with HTML content, the boundary between
MIME parts has been changed to hopefully prevent problems with some
mail clients

=item *

when sending a subscription with HTML content, any carriage-returns
are converted into linefeed to hopefully prevent problems when sending
subscriptions based on Macintosh format files to some mail clients.

=item *

htmlemail/basic.tmpl now includes a DOCTYPE, which will hopefully
prevent problems with some mail clients.

=item *

conditionals are now handled differently in the templating system to
avoid some of the undefined value warnings it was producing.

=item *

added fields intended for custom processing to the orders table

=back

=head2 0.12_08

This is a development release.  If you want stable try 0.12_01, since
many destabilizing changes have occurred since then.

If you install this release it's possible the upgrade_mysql.pl script
cannot be used to upgrade to a later release.

=over

=item *

oops, forgot to implement deleting articles, so I implemented it for
articles and unused products

=item *

you can now add admin groups and users.  This is in progress and the
templates and code still need work.

=item *

image files weren't being deleted when an image was deleted from an
article.

=item *

the page refreshed to the normal article edit page after deleting an
image, it should refresh to the image list

=item *

updated and new templates and new file icons from Adrian

=back

=head2 0.12_07

=over

=item *

added handling for a default template based on parent, level and type.
Returns to our original defaults from %LEVEL_DEFAULTS, but uses the
config file instead.

=item *

now lists level specific templates in the templates drop-down for
normal articles

=item *

updated templates from Adrian

=item *

since the default release date for new products is now the date the
product was added, and release is a datetime, add_item()'s check to
make sure the product had been released was broken, since it only
compared it with a date.

=item *

the purchase() and prePurchase() functions in shop.pl had a similar
problem

=item *

articles weren't being regenerated on save

=item *

report errors supplied to show_cart() in shop.pl

=item *

changed add_item() to report why it didn't add an item to the cart via
show_cart() (#167)

=item *

t/t00smoke.t now checks add.pl for normal articles, catalogs and
products

=item *

removed now unneeded onClick handler from delete in the image manager

=back

=head2 0.12_06

This release includes some inactive files for access control.

=over

=item *

replace edit_2.tmpl (which replaces edit_[345].tmpl) too

=item *

fix a dumb bug that prevented changes to the base article fields from
being saved

=back

=head2 0.12_05

=over

=item *

test script to check that all modules and scripts have use strict and
all scripts have -w in the #! line

=item *

the width and height values were swapped for display of an articles
images in the image manager template

=item *

children weren't sorted on article editing pages

=item *

updated templates from Adrian.

=item *

added a previousLogon field to accept the last value of lastLogon at
logon, so the previous value could be displayed.

=item *

editing an article would give a server error on save (due to some late
changes)

=back

=head2 0.12_04

=over

=item *

the wrong url was redirected to after adding a new image or saving images

=item *

manage catalogs now points back at shopadmin.pl

=item *

removed the "Image Wizard" buttons and replaced them with "Manage
Images" links in the image displays. (and fixed some missing </td> tags)

=back

=head2 0.12_03

=over

=item *

added child_types() method to BSE::Edit::Product so it knows what
child types a product can have.  This meant that the Add Product
button on the view in edit page was trying to add a normal article
rather than a product.  Typically a type parameter should be supplied
when creating new articles which aren't base articles.

=item *

shopadmin.pl was still using $imageEditor even though it wasn't
defined

=item *

t00smoke.t wasn't checking shopadmin.pl

=item *

edit_[1-5].tmpl and edit_catalog.tmpl included the starting <form> tag
in a conditional, breaking the form when creating a new article

=back

=head2 0.12_02

When installing this release over earlier releases:

=over

=item 1.

run mysql_upgrade.pl to upgrade the database schema

=item 2.

start the mysql shell and run the following query in your database:

  update image set displayOrder = id;

to preserve image ordering.

=item *

the <:if art:> conditional tag is no longer available

=back

This is a development release, intended to test the new code in BSE,
in preparation for adding security mechanisms.  This is not intended
for production use yet.

Please see the known problems list.

=over

=item *

was parsing wrap parameters when there weren't any, which caused
warnings in the error log

=item *

you couldn't create a new subscription with the archiving switched off

=item *

if you edited a subscription, and unset the archive check, the save
left it as archived.

=item *

article editing is being almost completely rewritten to allow more
code re-use.

=item *

article image management has been completely rewritten so that the
changes you make are immediate, rather than relying on the user to
save the article after making changes.  This prevents the problem that
sometimes crops up where the images you're editing are for the wrong
article, or left over from an aberted attempt to create a new article.

This change also means you can't add images to an article until the
article has been created.

=item *

previously the order of images would change at the whim of the
database, which happened pretty rarely but still happened.  Added a
displayOrder field to images, and we base the ordering (and
re-ordering) on that instead of whatever the database chooses to give
us today.

=item *

products and catalogs use the new editing code

=item *

new tags on edit pages to give access to validation errors (most
noticable on the add product page for now),

=item *

added an "old" tag to take a value from either the cgi parameters or a
given other tag.  This makes error reporting more natural

=back

Known issues:

=over

=item *

the code allows the product title and summary to be changed.  The new
security code will correct this (and allow them to be changed, or the
product to be deleted, for unused products)

=item *

only add_product.tmpl has the new error reporting and old value access
tags

=item *

the delete/undelete links for products don't work.  Currently the same
functionality is available through the Listed drop-down, but it might
be desirable to keep the links, comments welcome.

=back

=head2 0.12_01

Some derived tags may not work with the new fields, since I've
switched to the version of Squirrel::Template used by Resource, which
should reduce memory consumption a little, once all the tags are
converted.

I think I have all the derived tags, but there might be one I
missed...

=over

=item *

added ifAncestor conditional tag

=item *

added iterator children_of and tag ofchild, usage:

=over

<:iterator begin children_of I<parent_id1> ...:>
<:ofchild I<field>:>
<:iterator end children_of:>

=back

=item *

added iterator inlines and tag inline, usage:

=over

<:iterator begin inlines I<article_id1> ...:>
<:inline I<field>:>
<:iterator end inlines:>

=back

=item *

more test code to test the above (now I have the infrastructure to
simplify adding these types of tests

=back

=head2 0.12

0.11_21 seems stable enough.

=head2 0.11_21

Assuming no other problems are found this will become 0.12

=over

=item *

oops, missed some updated templates from Adrian, applied bse_changes
archive (#148)

=back

=head2 0.11_20

=over

=item *

another set of new templates from Adrian

=item *

extended title and email fields of site_user to 127 and 255 characters
respectively

=back

=head2 0.11_19

=over

=item *

remove debugging code from Generate::excerpt() (#142)

=item *

added script interest.pl to send an email to the site owner when the
user registers interest in a product (#133)

=back

=head2 0.11_18

=over

=item *

must_be_filled really fixed now (#128)

=item *

was calling function (now_sqldatetime()) that didn't exist

=item *

integrated new templates from Adrian, hopefully I got the right
revisions.

=item *

<:moveallprod:> for the catalogs page (#122)

=item *

admin link for new catalogs now points at admin.pl (#120)

=back

=head2 0.11_17

=over

=item *

removed extraneous <:embed end:> from printable.tmpl

=item *

prevent access to parent fields from autovivifying $parent in
Generate::Article::baseActs(), which caused ifParent to return true.

=item *

gen.pl now enables the query cache even for small batches, since it
makes a big difference.

=item *

products pages now remove the <:embed start:> and <:embed end:>
markers

=item *

need a space between "checked" and the closing "/>" in
options_base.html for the checked to be recognized.

=item *

keepAddress stayed checked once checked

=item *

must_be_filled is now correctly looked up in [downloads] - it was
looking in [download] (#128)

=item *

prevent a warning about using a regexp range of [\w-.] by making it
[\w.-] (BSE::UserReg)

=item *

store the date _and_ time in the orderDate field so that orders are
sorted correctly on the user page. (#132)

=item *

add sort order after date to sort by id descending for orders on the
same date (#132)

=item *

highlight multi-word matches in search excerpts (#125)

=item *

help for body text from add product page (#118)

=item *

new templates from Adrian

=item *

when creating a new product, the release date was being set to
2001-01-01, rather than the more useful C<today> (whatever day that
happens to be).  This was mostly visible to the search engine. (#130)

=item *

images list now available on edit_product.html page

=back

=head2 0.11_16

=over

=item *

updated templates from Adrian (which I forgot to add in 0.11_15
<sigh>)

=back

=head2 0.11_15

=over

=item *

moved step kids/step parents management to their own page (if you use
the old edit templates you can keep them on the same page.)

=item *

added file_unlink option to [debug] in bse.cfg

=item *

added mail_encryption option to [debug] in bse.cfg

=item *

minor reorganization of mail encryption to avoid a "Odd number of
elements in hash assignment" error in some circumstances.

=item *

added help to the article editor pages

=item *

added license

=item *

added <:movestepkid:> tag to the Generate::Article set of tags

=item *

added the BSE::Version class and the <:release:> tag

=item *

more admin templates (most of the edit_*.tmpl) can now be controlled
from the config file.

=item *

fixed a broken in-page link from the refresh after adding a stepparent

=item *

fixed an uninitialized value warning introduced in 0.11_14

=item *

changed the misleading "Uploaded files" to "Uploaded images" on the
edit pages.

=back

=head2 0.11_14

=over

=item *

imageclean.pl now keeps thumbnail images

=item *

new display templates from adrian

=item *

added the stepkids and allkids options to ifUnderThreshold.

=item *

documented the C<kb>, C<date>, C<ifEq>, C<ifMatch> and C<cfg> tags.

=back

=head2 0.11_13

This is a test release.

=over

=item *

added the kb tag which formats the result of it's arguments with a k
suffix if the value is over 1000.  This can be used for making file
size displays prettier.

=item *

the config variable wasn't being passed into the ImageEditor object in
shopadmin.pl

=back

=head2 0.11_12

This is a test release.

=over

=item *

make the downloadable files feature available on other pages

=item *

add code to support downloads of non-paid for files

=back

=head2 0.11_11

=over

=item *

make the url tag generate the full url on "extra" pages.

=back

=head2 0.11_10

=over

=item *

test.cfg now has a C<securl> option to control the configured secure url

=item *

added site/doc/secure.pod, describing security considerations

=item *

article title field has been extended to 255 characters.  The title
edit field maximum length can be controlled with the C<title_size>
item in [field] in F<bse.cfg>.

=item *

you can get access to the currently logged in user on the checkout and
cart pages using the C<ifUser> conditional tag and the C<user> value
tag.

=item *

stripped some more common code out of shop.pl

=item *

extended the common cfg tag to take a third default value parameter

=item *

search result excerpts can now bold partial matches 

=item *

the page regenerator didn't handle the case where a port name was
present in the secure url.

=item *

now generate gen.html from gen.pl

=item *

added POD to site/docs/makedocs and generate the HTML

=item *

added POD to site/util/upgrade_mysql.pod and generate a HTML version

=item *

when a user logs on and the secure url is different from the base url,
BSE now refreshes to the other side of the site to set the same
session cookie there.  This allows session information to be shared
with the two sides of the site.

There is a known issue with this: any session information (like the
shopping cart) stored on the other side of the site is not retained.

=back

=head2 0.11_09

=over

=item *

updated user/* templates from Adrian

=item *

checkout code for the shop didn't pass in the config object to the
mail class

=item *

work around a bug in the search index builder

=item *

finally added some test code.  This isn't ready for general use yet and
could damage your system.  So don't use it.

=item *

BSE::Cfg now checks the current directory as well as $FindBin::Bin,
this lets initial.pl work

=back

=head2 0.11_08

This is a test release.

I still need to integrate some of the customization hooks from the
realware branch.

=over

=item *

remove dependency on Time::HiRes (this was used for benchmarking while
speeding up the site regen.)

=item *

the global date tag didn't handle a date where the time was missing
(like article.lastModified).  And it ignored the time when it did
manage to extract it.

=item *

remove query caching change reports (Table.pm)

=back

=head2 0.11_07

This is a test release.

=over

=item *

initial.pl now looks at the config file for the secure base url

=item *

BSE::Util::Secure wasn't importing md5_hex

=item *

added missing user/email_conferror_base.tmpl

=item *

the user/confirmed.tmpl entry was missing from [pregenerate] in the
supplied bse.cfg.  Also user/email_conferror.tmpl

=item *

the randomdata key was missing from the [basic] section in the
supplied bse.cfg

=item *

changed message in site/templates/user/toosoon_base.tmpl to prevent
panic when the user goes back and selects another group

=item *

changed meaning of ifUser in user templates to accept a parameter if
present

=item *

updated user/options_base.tmpl to display email confirmed information
a bit more correctly

=item *

the admin can choose to hide some subscriptions

=back

=head2 0.11_06

This is a test release.

I wouldn't be suprised to find problems in this release, there have
been a lot of changes.

Still needs some documenting.

=over

=item *

optimized generate_all() for large sites.  Despite the fact most of
the improvement came from caching, generate seems to use less memory.

=item *

added gen.pl command-line regen script

=item *

added option to generate.pl to just regen extras and base pages

=item *

$URLBASE and $SECURLBASE from Constants.pm have been moved to C<url>
and C<secureurl> in the C<[site]> section of bse.cfg

=item *

datadump.pl now uses the newer database configs (has it worked
recently?) and the newer mail interfaces.

=item *

subscriptions management - interfaces to add new subscription
(newsletter) types, and displays options in user options to allow a
user to subscribe.  To prevent abuse by spammers (maybe) and by other
attackers, we get the user to confirm subscription of their email
address.  This is big.

=item *

%EXTRA_TAGS has been moved to C<[extra tags]> in bse.cfg

=back

=head2 0.11_05

This is a test release.

=over

=item *

added base_tags() to BSE::Custom (tags available during static
generation of most pages.)

=item *

step(kids|parents) now available to all articles, though you may have
some problems connecting the shop articles (catalogs,products) to
others

=item *

standard date tag available in most places

=item *

the <:summary:> tag now takes an optional which parameter, defaulting
to "child".

=item *

you can now specify the default template for children of a given
article.

=item *

you can specify extra template directories to search while editing a
given article.

=item *

moved the side bar logon form to it's own article (loaded by
initial.pl) and added it to the side bar subsection.

=item *

shortened the long message used in the refresh back to user.pl when
the user has file based products in their cart, but hasn't logged in.
This was causing problems with IE6.  It now attempts to pull a longer
message out of the config file.

=back

=head2 0.11_03

=over

=item *

handling of downloads from the user page is handled better: you don't
get a download link unless the file is downloadable, and rejected
download results in a refresh to the user page rather than just
displaying the user page

=item *

the logon and register pages can now be passed a refresh url, which
the shop uses when it refreshes to the logon page

=item *

add an orders button when logged in

=item *

the file list was messed up

=back

=head2 0.11_02

Another test release:

=over

=item *

actually tested the form filling with the user's defaults

=item *

modify localinst.perl to remove the default bse.cfg

=item *

have the checkout function return if the user needs to register (shop.pl)

=item *

check in a few more places if the user needs to register (shop.pl)

=item *

changed names of fields in SiteUsers to match the checkout form

=item *

added telephone and facsimile fields to the user options

=back

=head2 0.11_01

Test release:

=over

=item *

supports files attached to products for sale

=item *

user registration

=item *

we now have a config file

=back

=head2 0.11

Looks like all known problems are fixed.  Time to do a semi-major
release.

=head2 0.10_16

=over

=item *

hopefully fixed an occasionaly problem where the images would reorder
themselves

=back

=head2 0.10_15

=over

=item *

make the depth parameter in <:embed which template depth:> work

=item *

give the sitemap a lower depth since 7 levels (5 + the level1 and 2)
is too much.

=back

=head2 0.10_14

=over

=item *

try to avoid dividing entered prices by 100 when there's an error on
the product edit/add form.  There's still some potential problems
here, but they're much less likely to cause a problem.

=item *

remove the border from image[] generated images

=item *

move the error message on the product add form so it isn't mixed up
with the menu

=item *

the dummy product used to generate the product edit form after an
error wasn't useful for getting step catalogs, get the real product
object just for that.

=back

=head2 0.10_13

=over

=item *

remove the border from embedded images with a url

=item *

fixed an old bug that defaulted the threshold from the template (oops)

=item *

the ... in <:image which align ...:> or <:image which field ...:> is
now appended to the attributes of the image field.  If it includes a
border attribute the default border attribute is suppressed.

=back

=head2 0.10_12

=over

=item *

new order_list templates from adrian (moved the filter forms into the table)

=item *

fixed the image wizard for products.  I'm suprised this ever worked.
Wasn't preserving parentid when creating a new product.

=item *

new edit_product template from adrian

=item *

stupid bug in BSE::Shop::Util

=item *

email is now in BSE::CustomBase->required_fields() and can be removed
by BSE::Custom->required_fields().  If it is removed then no
validation of the email address is performed.

=item *

state changes made in handling the confirm page are now saved

=item *

added strict to a few modules

=item *

added missing error handling methods to BSE::Mail.

=item *

old tag on the confirm tag now never gives the undef value message

=item *

if you specify a embedding depth less than the current maximum, you
won't get an error message embedded when passing that depth.  This
lets you do more interesting effects.

=item *

shop.pl now writes mail sending errors to STDERR (to the error log on
apache) rather than aborting the order display (since the order
actually exists at this point.)

=back

=head2 0.10_11

=over

=item *

support for filtering the order lists by dates entered by the user

=item *

make the add section link work, and make the link itself a little more 
usable

=item *

removed some old debug code

=item *

make BSE::Custom->checkout_actions() work on the confirmation page

=back

=head2 0.10_10

=over

=item *

documented new tags for Product.pm and Article.pm

=item *

shopadmin.pl can list/move the stepkids (you can hide them too)

=item *

added some tests to test if various iterators show anything,
ifProducts, ifAnyProds, ifStepProds.

=back

=head2 0.10_09

=over

=item *

put the reorder links into the edit templates

=item *

fix expire labels for edit_1.tmpl and edit_catalog.tmpl

=item *

reordering from the catalog works

=item *

reordering from the product editor works

=back

=head2 0.10_08

Making progress.

=over

=item *

fixed the ordering of items in the allprods tag

=item *

make allprods always work with products

=item *

realware wanted a confirmation page

=back

=head2 0.10_07

Another test release:

=over

=item *

initial step kids|parents for the shop

=item *

new popup menu templates from Adrian

=item *

added acknowledgements to AUTHOR section

=back

=head2 0.10_06

Test release for Adrian, with his new templates.

=head2 0.10_05

Test release for Adrian.

=head2 0.10_04

Don't use this version.

=over

=item *

URLs can be directly associated with an image

=item *

multiple levels of catalogs

=item *

shop item options

=item *

filtering/sorting of orders from the template

=item *

embedded templates can be based on the template of the article being
embedded

=item *

order status information, marking an order has having been filled

=item *

better handling of generation errors

=item *

partial support for Microsoft SQL Server under IIS

=item *

extended price tag for the cart and checkout pages

=item *

prePurchase target for the shop, to allow custom credit card processing

=item *

template based filtering of the order list

=back

=head2 0.10_03

=over

=item *

added the admin/reorder.pl script

=item *

template names in <: embed :> tags have $ replaced with the template
name of the article.

=back

=head2 0.10_02

=over

=item *

added the image[] tag  (image[index|align|url])

=item *

added printable.pl, site/templates/printable/printable.tmpl to allow
printable versions of pages (among other things)

=item *

implemented the ifCurrentPage tag

=back

=head2 0.10_01

=over

=item *

added <:siteUrl:> tag in %EXTRA_TAGS (used by the RSS templates)

=item *

fixed broken template value for the formatting guide (initial.pl)

=item *

fixed broken admin links for the formatting guide (initial.pl)

=item *

the formatting guide now generates to
http://your.site/a/format_guide.html (initial.pl)

=item *

RDF/RSS is now generated to /a/site.rdf.  This includes links and
titles for the articles on the home page, and a search field (if the
tool displaying the RSS supports that.)

=back

=head2 0.10

WARNING: the tag for articles found for a search has changed from:

  article I<field>

to:

  result I<field>

There is a new module required: HTML::Parser

=over 4

=item *

the <:embed child:> tags meaning has been expanded to allow embedding
of any article with an optional template

=item *

there's now an embed[] tag for use in body text.  Both this and 
<:embed ... :> are protected against infinite recursion.

=item *

changed display values for sections etc in Constants.pm, you can still
put your own in when you customize.

=item *

the default templates for each level have been set to a single
template, for a simpler default setup

=item *

new admin index pages, which may display a little better in some
browsers

=item *

you can move articles between levels, if enabled in Constants.pm

=item *

unquoted search terms will do "start of word" searches if enabled in 
Constants.pm

=item *

html[] tags and <html> body text now has tags stripped when displayed
as a summary or as a search excerpt.  The search indexing can now
handle both of these too.

=item *

the search template now uses 'result' rather than 'article' for the
search result entries.  This is needed since the search base page is
generated as an article, using a dummy article.  The title and
titleImage for this dummy article can be specified in Constants.pm.

=item *

you can now control whether an unlisted level1 article is displayed in
the crumbs for an article.  By default unlisted level1 articles are
NOT listed anymore.

=item *

a bunch of new templates from adrian, including moving the common
layout into base.tmpl where possible, support for "sidebars".

=item *

a formatting guide article in initial.pl (from adrian) (and then an
updated version of it)

=item *

renamed INSTALL to INSTALL.txt to prevent wierdness if someone tries
"make install" on a case-insensitive file system.

=item *

administration templates are now kept in the admin directory in the
templates directory

=item *

added simple test installer.  WARNING: this destroys the existing content
of your site.

=item *

distribution now includes site/htdocs/shop as a directory rather than
as a file

=item *

schema/bse.sql now drops the tables if they already exist

=item *

the item description in the shopping cart is now a link to the item

=item *

changed some defaults in Constants.pm

=item *

catalog templates from $TMPLDIR/templates/catalogs weren't being handled
correctly

=back

=head2 0.09

=over 4

=item *

added support for controlling access to the regenerate option

=item *

added the ability to disable auto-regeneration

this initially broke some buttons, fixed

=item *

properly escape child properties in add.pl

=item *

removing an article now removes any associated images

=item *

removing an image from an article now removes the image file when you
save the article.

=item *

added datadump.pl (send an email containing a mysql datadump), with
configuration in Constants.pm

=item *

added imageclean.pl - cleans up the image table and images directory

=item *

added an advanced admin page with links to datadump.pl and
imageclean.pl (you can change these of course).

=item *

previously it was possible for a user with admin rights to choose a
template that was outside the templates directory.  

=back

=head2 0.08

=over 4

=item *

modified administration templates

=item *

formatting is now stripped from body text before an excerpt is
produced (for the search results).

=back

=head2 0.07

I'll add in the 0.07 change list as soon as I figure out what I changed...

Once I get my old 0.08 RC that may include the 0.07 change list.

=head2 0.06

Some changes are being made to allow the engine to be embedded into a
site (specifically squirrelweb.com.au).

=over 4

=item *

Bug fix: shop.pl had a silly exporter mistake, and a sillier reference
to an unknown variable name.

=item *

changed admin links to buttons for the catalog and product pages,
added a Display button to the product page.

=item *

cleaned up the shopitem, cart_base, checkout_base, checkoutfinal_base,
mailorder and mailconfirm templates, removing tags that don't work in
them, removing references to bodyscoop, fixing broken images, removed
thawte stamp.gif.

=item *

%EXTRA_TAGS now work in mailorder and mailconfirm templates

=item *

You can now use $SHOP_EMAIL_ORDER to disable sending the encrypted
order.  (Useful only for testing or until you get encryption keys
organized - there's no other way to get the credit card number and
expiry date.)

=item *

Generate/Product.pm had a hard-coded link to the internal test
site. (Doh!)

=item *

some base URIs can be configured, though this still needs some work.

=back

=head2 0.05

=over 4

=item *

Bug fix: only add the class attribute to thumbnails if one is supplied
(doh!)

=item *

Moved shop configuration from shop.pl to Constants.pm

=item *

Extended template field to 127 characters so directories can be used
without chopping off names.

=item *

Added installation documentation.

=item *

Templates in the drop-down lists in add.pl now includes templates from
$TMPLDIR/$level and $TMPLDIR/common.

=item *

crumbs now include the section, whether or not they are listed.

=item *

added templates.pod, which contains most templating documentation,
copied from new documentation in various places (shop.pl, search.pl,
Generate::*.pm).

=item *

search.pl wasn't handling single-quoted search terms correctly

=item *

added ifInMenu tag

=item *

more changes to support multiple catalogs:

=over 4

=item *

the initial catalog can be removed.  The initial catalog isn't useful
when you need more than one catalog.  If you want multiple catalogs
you need to remove the initial catalog and then add new ones.  The
templates need work too.

=item *

the link/admin fields for the new article are set correctly (oops)

=item *

added a sample section template for a multi-catalog shop

=back

=item *

the sample templates look better, along with better title images

=item *

the shop was being generated with a non-secure url

=item *

parent articles were not being regenerated when an article was deleted

=back

=head2 0.04

You will need to recreate the articles table, since a new column has
been added to support article thumbnails.

=over 4

=item *

Added article thumbnails.

=item *

Multiple product catalogs.

=item *

leadTime is now modifiable in products.

=item *

Bug fix: only list .tmpl files from template directories in article
editing forms.

=item *

Bug fix: prevent adding non-catalog subsections to the shop section.

=item *

Bug fix: the crumbs iterator no longer shows crumbs that have "don't
list in menu" set.  Such subsections often shouldn't be linked to.

=item *

The documentation on article templates has been improved.

=item *

Some tags that operate on articles have been expanded to work on all
article objects available in the template.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Tony Cook <tony@develop-help.com>

I originally wrote BSE while an employee at SquirrelWeb
(http://www.squirrelgroup.com/) for one of VisualThought's clients,
bodyScoop.com (http://www.bodyScoop.com.au/).

Most of the BSE templates were created by Adrian Oldham of Visual
Thought Communications (http://www.visualthought.com.au) He also
funded and suggested many improvements.

Realware Systems (http://www.realware.com.au/) funded the nested
catalogs, IIS support, the image access tags, and many other shop
improvements, including most of the BSE::Custom hooks.

=cut
