=head1 NAME

bse_import.pod - importing products into BSE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Section C<< [import profile I<profilename>] >>.

=over

=item *

map_I<fieldname> = input column number (starting from 1)

=item *

set_I<fieldname> = set the given field to a value

=item *

xform_I<fieldname> - code to proceess the column, with $_ set to
value from map / set, $product set to a hash with the other values
set.  Result is the value in $_.  Run after map_* and set_*.

=item *

file_path - path_sep (almost always ":") separated list of locations
to search for image files

=item *

source - type of input format, default and currently C<XLS> or C<CSV>.

=item *

target - type of output record, default Product, can currently be
C<Article> or C<Product>.

=item *

cat1, cat2, cat3 - catalog names

=back

=head2 XLS source

Configuration:

=over

=item *

sheet - sheet number to import from

=item *

skiprows - number of rows to skip (eg. header rows)

=back

=head2 Article imports

=head3 Configuration

=over

=item *

codes - use the "code_field" to identify the existing article.
Default false.

=item *

code_field - the name of the input field to identify an existing
article or title.  Default "product_code" for products, "linkAlias"
for articles.

=item *

update_only - if true, records are only updated, the summary, body and
description fields are no longer populated from title, title is no
longer required to be mapped, and codes defaults to true.  If
C<code_field> isn't specified the first mapped field from C<id> or
C<linkAlias> is selected (or C<product_code> for products)

=item *

ignore_missing - ignore missing image and article files.  Default: 1.

=item *

reset_images - reset images for an article being imported.  Default: 0.

=item *

reset_files - reset files for an article being imported.  Default: 0.

=item *

reset_steps - reset step parents for an article being imported.  Default: 0.

=back

=head3 Special article field names

=over

=item *

image1_file .. image10_file - name of an image file found in 

=item *

imageI<N>_alt, imageI<N>_name, imageI<N>_url, imageI<N>_storage - set
the appropriate fields for an image

=item *

C<< file1_file >> .. C<< file10_file >> - name of an article file to
attach to the article.

=item *

C<< file1I<N>_name >>, C<< file1I<N>_displayName >>, C<<
file1I<N>_storage >>, C<< file1I<N>_description >>, C<<
file1I<N>_forSale >>, C<< file1I<N>_download >>, C<<
file1I<N>_requireUser >>, C<< file1I<N>_notes >>, C<<
file1I<N>_hide_from_list >>, C<< file1I<N>_category >> - set other
file fields.

=item *

step1 .. step10 - step parent id or linkAlias

=item *

tags - / separated list of article tags

=back

=head2 Product imports

=head3 Configuration

All article config also applies here.

=over

=item *

price_dollar - prices are in dollars (default: 0)

=item *

product_template - template name for products (default: system default)

=item *

catalog_template - template for catalogs (default: system default)

=item *

prodopt_value_sep - separator for product options (default: "!")

=item *

reset_prodopts - reset product options when updating a product (true)

=back

=head3 Special product field names

A mapping for C<retailPrice> is B<required>.

=over

=item *

tier_price_I<N> - price for tier id I<N>

=item *

prodopt1_name .. prodopt5_name - names of product options

=item *

prodopt1_values .. prodopt5_values - values for the product option
(separated by ! by default, see prodopt_value_sep.

=back

=cut
