=head1 NAME

paypal.pod - processing payments through PayPal with BSE.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  [shop]
  payment_types=4
  ; or for both CC and paypal:
  payment_types=0,4

  ; you may need to set this, or not
  country_code=1

  [paypal]
  test=0
  live_api_username=...
  live_api_password=...
  live_api_signature=...

  ; or for testing - THIS IS THE DEFAULT
  test=1
  test_api_username=...
  test_api_password=...
  test_api_signature=...

  [paypal custom]
  ; see the PayPal ExpressCheckout Advanced Feature Guide
  HDRBORDERCOLOR=...
  HDRBACKCOLOR=...
  PAGESTYLE=...
  HDRIMG=...
  LOCALECODE=...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BSE's PayPal integration uses PayPal's Express Checkout API.

Setting up:

=over

=item *

check that country_code in the [shop] section is configured correctly.
If it isn't then shipping information will not be passed to PayPal.

=item *

add 4 to the list of payments types accepted by BSE, the payment_types
key in [shop].

=item *

for test, configure test_api_username, test_api_password and
test_api_signature in [paypal] from the values in the PayPal sandbox
for your test business account.

=item *

for live, configure live_api_username, live_api_password and
live_api_signature in [paypal] from the values from your live merchant
account.  You must also C<test=0> in [paypal].

=item *

optionally, configure values in [paypal custom].  See C</config.pod>
for some examples.

=back

Unless disabled, all API requests to PayPal are logged in the audit
log.  To see the most recent event:

  select * from bse_audit_log order by id desc limit 1;

in the mysql shell.

=cut
