=head1 NAME

preload.tmpl - preloaded template macros

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  <:.call ... -:>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BSE provides F<preload.tmpl> as sample macros for use in templates.

=head2 High-level form field display

These require two parameters or preset variables:

=over

=item *

C<fields> - a hash of fields

=item *

C<errors> - a hash or error messages for the fields

=item *

C<object> - an object containing the current values for an object, or
a false value.

=back

=over

=item *

C<field> - lay out a form field, including label, input field, units,
error indicator.

=item *

C<fieldset> - like C<field> but lay out the field inside a field set.

=item *

C<fieldro> - like C<field>, lay out a form field, but read only.  Does
not include an error indicator.

=item *

C<fieldsetro> - like C<fieldset>, but read only.

=back

=head2 Low-level form-field display

These are used by the high level field macros, do not require
C<fields> to be set, but accept C<name> and C<field> paramaters, where
C<field> is a value from C<fields>.

=over

=item *

C<input> - display an input field 

=item *

C<display> - display a value.

=item *

C<inlinefield> - like C<field> but accepts C<name> and C<field>
instead of C<name> and C<fields>.

=item *

C<inlinefieldro> - like C<fieldro> but accepts C<name> and C<field>
instead of C<name> and C<fields>.

=item *

C<make_select> - make a single select element.  Used by C<input>.

=item *

C<make_multicheck> - make a multi-select checkbox set.  Used by
C<input> etc.

=item *

C<old> - for older pages, render the cgi value given a field name in
C<field>, otherwise the supplied C<default>.

=back

=head2 Other Utilities

=over

=item *

C<page_list> - render a list of pages.  Accepts a base url in C<base>
and a list of pages to render, as produced by bse.pages in C<pages>.

=item *

C<error_img_n> - render an error indicated for field C<field>, index
C<index>.  The error message is taken from C<errors>.

=item *

C<error_img> - render an error indicator for field C<field>.

=item *

C<messages> - render any stored error messages.

=item *

C<mover> - render item move arrows.  Requires C<loop>, C<parent>.

=back

=cut